{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Helvetica;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;}
\fs24
\b Google Ads Integration Documentation for Paloma Marketing Agent\b0\par
\par
\b Overview\b0\par
This document describes the steps required to configure real Google Ads API access for the Paloma Marketing Agent application. It covers creating OAuth credentials, obtaining a developer token, generating a refresh token, and configuring the Render environment variables.\par
\par
\b 1. Create OAuth 2.0 Client (Desktop)\b0\par
1. Open the Google Cloud Console: https://console.cloud.google.com/\par
2. Select the project "paloma‑hotels‑483522" (or your own project).\par
3. In the left navigation choose **APIs & Services → Credentials**.\par
4. Click **+ CREATE CREDENTIALS → OAuth client ID**.\par
5. If prompted, configure the consent screen (External, App name: "Paloma Marketing Agent", your email as support/contact). Save.\par
6. In the **Create OAuth client ID** dialog select **Application type: Desktop app** and name it "Paloma Marketing Agent Desktop".\par
7. Click **Create**. A dialog shows **Client ID** and **Client secret**. Copy both values.\par
\par
\b 2. Enable Google Ads API\b0\par
1. Still in the Cloud Console, go to **APIs & Services → Library**.\par
2. Search for "Google Ads API" and click **Enable**.\par
\par
\b 3. Obtain a Developer Token\b0\par
1. Open the Google Ads UI: https://ads.google.com/\par
2. Navigate to **Tools & Settings → API Center** (or directly https://ads.google.com/aw/apicenter).\par
3. If you do not have a token, click **Apply for access** and fill the short form (company name, website, intended use).\par
4. After approval you will see a token such as **9rZMA93JZ7oDLs9hxMl2vw**.\par
5. **Important:** The token must be set to **Standard (Production)** – Explorer/Test access only works with Google’s sandbox and will not return real data.\par
\par
\b 4. Find your Customer ID\b0\par
1. In the Google Ads UI, the Customer ID appears in the top‑right corner (10‑digit number, e.g., 1234567890).\par
2. Copy the digits **without** the "act_" prefix or dashes.\par
\par
\b 5. Generate a Refresh Token\b0\par
We provide a helper script that performs the OAuth flow and returns a long‑lived refresh token.\par
\par
**Run the script:**\par
```bash\par
cd "/Users/nurettindemiral/Desktop/Ad Chat/marketing-agent-root"\par
source venv/bin/activate\par
pip install google-auth-oauthlib  # if not already installed\par
python backend/get_google_tokens.py\par
```\par
When prompted, paste the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** from step 1.\par
A browser window will open – sign in with the Google account that owns the Ads account and click **Allow**.\par
The script will output three lines, the last one being:\par
```
GOOGLE_REFRESH_TOKEN=1//YOUR_LONG_REFRESH_TOKEN\n```\par
Copy the entire token (it starts with `1//`).\par
\par
\b 6. Add Environment Variables to Render\b0\par
Open your Render dashboard → **marketing‑agent‑backend → Environment** and add the following variables (click **Add Environment Variable** for each):\par
\par
| Name | Value |
|------|-------|
| GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID | 1083195694272-dmhbdjhop4nslg4vtvk5154tcrdhsau8.apps.googleusercontent.com |
| GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET | 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 |
| GOOGLE_REFRESH_TOKEN | 1//YOUR_LONG_REFRESH_TOKEN |
| GOOGLE_DEVELOPER_TOKEN | 9rZMA93JZ7oDLs9hxMl2vw |
| GOOGLE_CUSTOMER_ID | 1234567890 |
| USE_MOCK_DATA | false (or delete) |
\par
After saving, Render will automatically redeploy the service. Wait until the deployment status shows **Live**.\par
\par
\b 7. Verify the Integration\b0\par
1. Open the front‑end URL: https://marketing-agent-dashboard.vercel.app/\par
2. Log in with your Paloma credentials.\par
3. In the chat, type: `How is Google Ads performing?`\par
You should see a chart titled **Google Ads Performance** populated with real spend, ROAS, clicks, and conversions for the last 7 days.\par
\par
\b Troubleshooting\b0\par
- If you still see mock data, ensure `USE_MOCK_DATA` is not set to `true`.\par
- Check the Render **Logs** for messages like "Missing environment variable" or "GoogleAdsException".\par
- Verify that the developer token status is **Standard** (Production).\par
- Make sure the refresh token was generated with the same Google account that owns the Ads account.\par
\par
\b End of Document\b0\par
}
